good morning how's everyone doing she
forgot your coffee and your donuts and
you've known us this morning no not yet
they'll be coming I'm sure they'll have
your all the sugar you need by the end
of the day so we're here to talk about a
desktop and server migration to Mac os10
my name is JD Mankowski I'm the
consulting engineer for us business and
federal for the u.s. so what does that
mean means that i live in a hotel i know
a lot of those flight attendants by
their first name and so i spent about
sixty percent of my time in front of
customers and I know quite a few of you
basically understanding your needs as
far as features for as an example for
Panther right now but before any future
releases of our operating system so it
spent a lot of time with enterprise
accounts understanding what they need
from apple and then i spend about thirty
to forty percent of my time back in
cupertino with our product marketing and
engineering folks and making sure that
we actually build the products you need
so that's kind of my role for for apple
and so you know basically what i'm going
to do today is kind of give you an
overview of some of the tools and best
practices that you know our customers
are using today to migrate to mac OS 10
and then you know with panther there's a
lot of new features that we think will
fit the needs of the enterprise and by
the way my enterprise is you know
business federal you know I consider
education in their price as well so if
there's education people in here when I
mentioned enterprise it does include
hire a discourse and k12 and so we're
going to talk about some of those tools
that are going to be made available to
you soon by the end of the year with
panther and Panther server and as you've
seen in the past year a lot of our
developers are all is well migrating to
mac OS 10 and porting the wraps to to
mac OS 10 and we'll talk about that in a
second but basically 2003 is the year to
move from nine to ten so for those of
you who haven't done this yet this is
really the year to do to do this
we'll try and illustrate and show you
some of the best practices in a second
so the first thing I wanted to do is
like we did last year the developer
conference I just wanted to have fun
with keynote that's all I like the
balancing feature it's kind of cool but
so this is another cool feature keynote
but basically last year no we put mac OS
9 / rest from the developer side and
this year we're putting mac OS 9 to rest
from the customer perspective and again
classic is still going to be here but
you know as you you know the g5 and all
the new machines are not booting mac OS
9 and so this is the time this is this
is a year to migrate to 10 so what are
going to learn well when I go and meet
with customers what they ask me quite
often is give us the ammunition where I
give us the reasons why we should go to
Mac OS 10 and so that'll be my first
point is try to give you the top 10
reasons that I think and our customers
feel like are good reasons to migrate
from Mac OS 9 to mac OS 10 as well as
migrating from Windows to Mac os10
because that's another thing that we'll
talk about today i will also have a
special guest from pixar who is actually
going to talk about how they migrated
there max from OS 9 20 s 10 and they did
some really really cool stuff and gable
actually show that in a few minutes and
then we'll talk a little bit about the
windows side because again you know we
started with a switcher campaign on the
consumer side but i feel like with
panther and panther server we have a
really good shot to actually go beyond
the consumer and beyond the creative
groups and actually replace some windows
desktops and some windows servers with
mac OS 10 and mac OS x server and to do
this will actually show you some really
cool demos today with eric lemons who
will show you actually some pretty
interesting integration demos so what
are the top 10 reasons to move to as 10
and again this is feedback that I've got
from customers that have migrated to mac
OS 10 already so the number the number
one bullet that i would think of as
security right Mac OS 10
foundation when we built when we design
Mac os10 it was built around you know a
very robust core OS but security was
built in not bolted on like some of the
other operating systems out there so my
first point is you know security
built-in not bolted on and you can see
that this year with kerberos you can see
we're pushing for pretty heavily
kerberos some other things that we
haven't talked about is smart card
support so we have smart card support
and Mac OS 10 and so you can you know
you can also look at that that's a
pretty interesting roadmap as far as we
have a lot of demand from our federal
groups on smart cards but we think this
can apply as well to to the business
into the enterprise where they could
very easily put in a smart card reader a
USB smart card reader put it in and
basically type in a pin number and get
instead of having the login prompt and
having to remember their name and
password they can actually do that with
a smart card and with a pin a pin number
stability Mac OS 10 is a much more
stable OS than mac OS 9 and you all
experience that already I mean even
though an application can quit and it
does happen and I'm sure you've seen
that today or this week you should play
with the betas of Panther right or the
WTC build so it is much more stable than
mac OS 9 and the beauty of it is you can
force quit an application and it doesn't
bring the whole system down directory
integration that's something that I've
heard a lot about throughout all those
meetings with with accounts is they
really want us to fit in and integrate
with their back-end directory and that
means ldap integration it means you know
Active Directory Integration as well
single sign on is another big thing and
that's something that we announced this
year with Panther will be able to
achieve that will be able to achieve
single sign-on and again for those of
you don't know what that means it
basically means that you log in once at
the login window and then you can
connect your ASP and connect to your ftp
you can ssh without having to re enter a
password anymore or username and a
password
and so single sign on is something
that's very useful in the in the
enterprise world server based user home
directories ok that's the feature where
you can log in from any desktop and that
machine becomes your machine your
background your fonts get loaded your
files get loaded your email gets loaded
very very powerful feature that we can
achieve actually we can already do that
today in Jaguar but we'll go beyond that
in Panther we're group management right
IT people love locking down the systems
right is that true yes so what group
management is a great thing it's called
workstation policies on the window side
same thing we can basically do some
pretty nifty things with with micro with
Jaguar and Panther where you know you
can lock down you know people plugging
in disk on keys right those wonderful
little USB devices you can prevent that
you can prevent people from mounting
external devices you can prevent them
from you know burning cds she can do all
sorts of things with with ro group
management and and that's again that was
designed from the get go with with
jaguar and with panther so it's not
something we added on top like in the
mac manager days with the OS ninth and
the OS 9 timeframe central desktop
administration that's another thing
people want they want to easily build a
manage those desktops and push
applications and push files push
preferences over to those computers and
so with panther we announced that apple
remote desktop the client will be built
in 22 Panther and that's the next big
step that's something that we had it
should recall in the end of eight and
nine days where we had you know Apple
Network assistant and I was built in you
can actually do that you can actually
add that to your custom install it's now
back in Panther so the client is built
into built into Panther and it's
actually in your sharing prep and that's
actually in the in the build you have in
your hands
robust unix-based foundation so yes Mac
os10 is a very robust unix OS but what I
discovered with our customers is when we
talk to you know the Mac group now we're
also as well talking to the UNIX group
and we've got those people pretty much
switched over as well right those UNIX
people had a Windows computer and they
had a unix box right they had a unit
computer to run their email and run the
the productivity suite like office in a
Word Excel and so forth and now they
basically replaced their windows
computer and their UNIX workstation with
a mac OS 10 bucks right and so you
should get if you're a Mac IT person you
should get with your unix people and get
to know them and actually you know
really work together as a group to
support the max to support the UNIX
stations that you have in your in your
environment and that's also the fact
that the mac OS n is unix also makes it
easier to find people that can manage
and help support those macs is anyone
with you know a solaris background or a
linux background can actually now help
support the max very it's much easier
for them to do that than to learn mac OS
9 believe me software developers have
transitioned to 10 great examples from
adobe from Microsoft I mean they make
phenomenal applications and so they have
transition to 10 and that's one more
reason to move to mac OS 10 from from
your perspective and then licensing
costs that's something that I hear a lot
about a lot of complaints from customers
is that licensing costs of Microsoft's
are pretty expensive and we think we
have a you know pretty good solution
with our maintenance agreements that we
have in place today so let's talk about
some general migration guidelines if you
haven't migrated to mac OS 10 yet what
are some of the key things that you
should look at before starting that
migration well the first one is planned
your directory strategy right what I
mean by directory strategy I mean take
the right back end authentication method
and you know we like standards right Mac
os10 is all based around open standards
and so if you haven't planned on your if
you haven't looked at a directory a
central directory strategy we highly
recommend you look at ldap based
solutions right and those could be from
Sun they can be from novell edirectory
the phenomenal solution for from a
directory perspective it could be from
IBM it can be from Apple using our new
openldap based ldap replication server
so you know active directory is and
interesting you know the product for
Microsoft it's not quite standards-based
right it's kind of a mixture of ldap
kerr bros plus some other things so we
like standards and so if you haven't
looked at this look at an ldap based
solution if you can if you've gone ad we
understand and will fit in plan your
desktop management right so again using
we're group management make sure that
you create and you set up your OS 10
servers with your work group management
and you define that and created your
groups and basically done all the work
in advance before deploying work group
management and that you've actually
tested that in a small environment right
50 users 10 to 50 use is a good number
to actually deploy this and test that
before you go throughout you know to
your hundreds of hundreds of mac users
get certified right we have a wonderful
certification program that's something
that our customers have been requesting
for years and its really really
important I mean you know i've been
using mac OS since 1984 I know Mac OS 9
I know every extension you know but Mac
OS 10 is a different beast there's a lot
of potential right in this operating
system a lot of potential and by getting
certified will give you a lot of that
those tips and a lot of that really
interesting suite that
knowledge that the the trainers have
because they a lot of them come from a
UNIX background and they could really
help you get jump-started and it's
really important that you get certified
for 10 before starting this Mac os10
migration and deployment so this is the
website check it out sign up for
applecare support right we have a pretty
nice applecare server software support
it's not the 999 the 999 that's really
for hardware you know it's in the five
thousand dollar range and that includes
very high level support from unix people
who can actually help you write you know
scripts and do some pretty interesting
stuff so we have those plans in place to
support enterprise level customers get
familiar with the new Apple tools right
so today you're familiar with carbon
copy cloner phenomenal tool net restore
is another one that's really cool in
Panther timeframe we have a new version
of disk utility we have a new version of
the network image utility which is
basically which takes a lot of the
carbon copy cloner features and
integrates it and in this tool and then
we have of course apple remote desktop
which is a phenomenal product I mean I
go and meet with customers on the pc
side and the comparable solutions are
you know worth thousands of dollars and
here you can get you know apple remote
desktop for a thousand dollars for
unlimited you know client seats and
that's that's just a phenomenal product
and that's one admin by the way so we
got some really good tools from Apple
that can do can achieve a lot of that
management for a pretty pretty
attractive price price point and by the
way this copy if you're using disk copy
today that's actually part of disk
utility in Panther so don't look for the
disk copy utility application it's now
embedded into disk utility so those are
the three tools that we just talked
about
so we're going to first start with the
92 Mac os10 migration and so what I
wanted to do first is kind of give you a
quick basic implementation and what I
mean by basic implementation is
basically a three-step process all right
I've summarized it into a three step
process to migrate from nine to the Mac
os10 and by the way this is this applies
to jaguar as well so the mac OS 9 to
migration the first thing that users can
do is they can use sherlock to should
remember to roll off to a mac OS 9 and
they can find the users files on the
hard drive right they find their files
on the local hard drive you can do some
of the advanced search capabilities to
do that of course you can right al Apple
script that does that automatically the
second thing is again if you plan your
directory and your desktop management
properly it probably means the user now
has a mac OS 10 home directory waiting
for him right so / asp you can connect
to that user home directory and he would
have you know his document folder his
picture folder his movie folder and he
can then from his OS 9 desktop copy all
those files over to his virtual Mac os10
home directory that's waiting for him
and then the third step is basically as
an admin you've created a custom image
right using the new tools or using
carbon copy cloner you've created your
jaguar image and you've added all your
applications that you use on a regular
basis you've built that image and you're
now ready to deploy it on that desktop
right and so in 10 3 we have a new
feature in disk utility so again you
could boot from a CD go to the restore
tab put in the HTTP URL where that
custom image is located and basically
restore the machine and when the user
comes in and he's at the login window
all he would have to do is love put in
his name and password and get to those
files that he just copied over when he
was still on Mac OS 9 and you can do
that with net restore again today with
one of my colleges tool to achieve the
same thing if you want to migrate from
line to the Jaguar today so what I'd
like to do now is actually introduce
gaben Vanessa it from Pixar and they've
done a phenomenal migration deployment
from nine to ten and Gabe is going to
talk to you about that thank you how's
everybody doing today hope you wouldn't
saw Finding Nemo last night upstairs a
lot of a lot of fun so uh my name is
Gabe benvenuti i'm an admin at Pixar
Animation Studios and I'm going to talk
to you today about how he moves 500 of
our max for most 920 s10 about how we
were able to utilize the UNIX foundation
that OSN has to easily integrate with
our infrastructure and how we were able
to take advantage of how scriptable the
operating system is so we were able to
use tools like Python applescript to
really streamline our whole migration
process the first thing we did is we
created our standard image using carbon
copy cloner with our standard images
called the pop which is short for
Pixar's OSN talks consists of latest
version of Mac OS 10 we did a custom
install and left out the localization
files we installed a standard set of
applications that all of our users get
things like office launch bar is a
utility that we found the users really
responded well to we also made specific
Network and machine configurations we
disabled the accounts pref pain so that
we had control over the creation of
accounts we disabled software update so
that we can control what software and
went gets updated on the machine we also
modified the user template home
directory and this is a really cool tip
because you can go and change what new
home directories will look like by going
to system library user templates English
at El prods you can change things like
how the default browser is set up where
the doc is placed what apps are in the
doc it's really really great so if you
change that template whenever you make a
new user it'll have those changes the
second thing we did is we made a
FileMaker database for planning and
tracking our migration the user goes and
they fill out a web form specifying what
apps they need outside of the standard
Bay
so what printers they need to configure
what peripherals they may have set up
and once once that form is submitted
their scheduled for a migration and when
that time comes the admin goes and grabs
their machines takes it to our lab and
boot it up into OS 9 they make sure that
the data is in the correct place either
in the documents folder or on their
desktop and the user was told on the
migration page to put their data there
we then restart the machine off of a
firewire drive running OS 9 and run this
really cool Python script we made called
roll out what stage 1 of roll out does
is it scans to fire the OS 9 machine for
data matching a certain criteria it
copies that data to the firewire drive
into a folder resembling a home
directory once that's done we take the
firewire drive and we boot the new
machine off of it and we wrote an appt
full script studio program called epoxy
that's a front end for Apple software
store or ASR what it does is on launch
it goes and checks a web server take it
the path to the latest version of our
pox it then boxes the new machine the
admin can enter their email address if
they want to be notified when it's done
and can set the machine to restart
automatically if the machine is new it
doesn't have an ldap record and so we
made another apple script studio
application called host maker to take
care of that it allows the admin to
enter the new machine name and the
primary users name it then goes and
looks up the users name and ldap gets
their information where they fit what
department there in check system
profiler for the machine serial number
and mac address combines that
information and creates a new host
record once the ldap information is up
to date and the machines been pox they
had neurons another program we made in
Apple script studio called configurator
on launch configurator goes and pulls
down the machines IP and the machine
name using the serial number it got from
system profiler it then automatically
sets that information in the machine and
then the admin said what backup settings
are going to be used for the machine so
and once the admin selects that the
backup team is notified
the default user information was also
pulled down automatically on launch the
admin can specify whether or not the
user has administrative privileges can
also specify what mailing list to add
the users to by default when we build
out notice 10 machines we add the user
to an OS 10 announced mailing list so
that they'll get updated automatically
if we need to send out messages the
admin can also download the users
picture from our internet and set it as
their login icon automatically if the
admin wants to create additional users
all they have to do is type in another
log in that information is pulled from
ldap all they have to do is press create
once all the users are created we run
stage two of our Python script rollout
which takes the data off of the firewire
drive and puts it into the newly created
home directories once the user is
created the admin logged in as that user
and runs another apple script studio
application we made called press maker
what press maker does is it
automatically configures mailed out apps
for the user based on their name and
login that it gets from the local net
info database it also imports their
stickies and bookmarks automatically and
once that's done the machine is ready to
be deployed the admin takes it to the
user's desk sets it up powers it on and
launches another applescript studio
application we made called tgif tgif
copies a shortcut to welcome to OS 10 at
Pixar to the users desktop launches a
web page and leaves it up for them when
the user comes in cleans up anything
like clears the recent bookmarks empty
the trash just makes the rinsing really
just ready for the user when they get in
it also synchronizes the ldap passwords
to the local net info password so that
the users have the right account
information it also deletes their
keychain and it also timestamps on
migration record for that machine to
complete so we can see how long it took
to do each migration so we can look for
ways to streamline it and kind of
identify bottlenecks that may exist as
you can see because of OS ends UNIX
foundation we were really able to
integrate our tools with our
infrastructure and really leverage that
power and we're also able to use things
like Python and Apple script ooh really
just streamline the whole process and
with these tools we minimize data entry
which not only takes a lot of time but
also helps prevent machines from being
misconfigured and we were also able to
really maximize on time savings I mean
not only was our process extremely fast
but now from box to desk on a new user
we can have a machine ready for them in
under 15 minutes and we can also now
that we have OS 10 out there on all our
machines we can build new tools to
really assist with our daily
administrative tasks and really just
make everything a lot easier so we can
focus on bigger tasks as opposed to
taking care of little things so that was
our migration process
[Applause]
so now we're going to talk about
migrating Windows clients to Mac os10
Panther so why migrate from windows
clients it was pretty easy so yeah
that's pretty hard isn't it so the first
bullet again is security right I I've
been to some pretty interesting accounts
the very large enterprise accounts and
they're like oh my god we just got the
latest microsoft patch and they apply
the latest microsoft patch and what does
it do it opens a whole bunch of other
holes into their network and they're not
very happy and they're like man every
time you come we have this problem apply
those microsoft security patches my
cream isn't that strange stability right
I mean we know Mac OS 10 is a very
stable operating system and some would
say more stable than windows I would
agree with that ease of use right Mac OS
10 is very easy to use I mean if you've
seen we've seen a lot of people move
from windows even on the consumer side
to Mac OS 10 and it's been it's been
very easy to my grave and they've been
very happy as far as using 10 save money
on licensing costs that's always
interesting let's need to apply security
and virus patches a very interesting
story here very very very large accounts
and when the Code Red virus hit you know
of course all their servers went down
and they were actually using power books
to find the windows 2000 servers that
were affected by the virus which is
pretty funny so they were running around
with Titanium's to find the servers and
to shut down the servers and that was
all done using using power books so that
was pretty pretty interesting ldap an
Active Directory connectivity now that
we have that you'll see in the demo the
process there is pretty streamlined to
actually move a Windows desktop user
over to a Macintosh and then by the way
we also have office
and as you saw in blood tribbles
presentation on Monday we should be
getting a very good exchange client for
Microsoft in in the very near future and
so again there's a for those of you who
have a big exchange infrastructure you
should definitely talk to your microsoft
rep to get on the beta and actually test
that in your environment there's
actually an email address and got got
sent for you to request to be part of
the debate ax and then Java right I mean
Java is a phenomenal cross-platform
development environment to actually make
sure that both your Mac and your Windows
users can actually use the tools that
you develop as an IT environment and we
have some phenomenal new developer tools
with Xcode that really simplify the
whole process and as you saw with Gabe I
mean they wrote some phenomenal Apple
scripts to do front end applications and
in a matter of you know days and so you
should really look at that should relook
at Apple scripts to do and if you were
at the session yesterday the migrating
UNIX to Mac os10 you saw Mike Bamba just
write a few applications very very
quickly and putting a very nice Apple
scripts to do front end and so you
should you should definitely look at
that some of the third-party solutions
for migration to migrate a Windows
desktop or over a really good one from
little machines allows you to migrate
you know your outlook email database
over to mail over to entourage you can
pick one or the other I think it's from
a windows perspective it's much easier
to migrate a Windows user from Outlook
to entourage then I'll look to mail
that's just what I would have noticed
address book and ical of course possibly
and then if you want to move the entire
user's home directory over you know from
a mac to a pc there's also a pretty good
solution from move to mac from detto
software
so this is a very interesting one is
windows 2000 migration to Panther server
and that's something that's really dear
to my heart because I might deal with a
lot of large accounts and they're like
man those cals are just killing us right
the price the pricing and and i met this
customer about what is it about 16
months ago and he has and he has a
thousand windows and key servers and
windows 2000 servers and they're like we
would really like to migrate those
servers over to the mac i mean he's the
CEO of the company and he loves math but
he says i got to make the right decision
for the company right i mean i'm not
going to migrate if it doesn't fit what
we require and we've deployed active
directory and it took us two year to two
years to migrate ad and we're not going
to any other directory you got to work
with us and and we've done that and
that's the reason why we've done you
know such a phenomenal job and Panther
and in Panther server to actually
achieve that and we'll talk about that
in a second so why am I great from
Windows servers well security price
number one it seems like Security's
coming back for the often here ease of
administration again our perspective
from the IT side is people should not be
spending a lot of time troubleshooting
and fixing desktop computers they should
be spending time thinking of what's the
next big thing right what's the next big
thing that can help my end users get
their job done faster and you really
streamline that process and that's what
we do inside of Apple I mean RIT group
doesn't spend a lot of time
troubleshooting desktops on a regular
basis I mean they built the you know the
point of sale system for the apple store
right they built the Apple music store
right all running on on Xers and extra
raid storage so that's what I righty
group spends their time on not you know
fixing desktop computers and having to
manage servers I mean it when you put a
server in place you shouldn't spend a
lot of time troubleshooting
that you should it should be installed
and forget unlimited client access
licensing that's a big one and when we
announced the xserve we had a lot of
calls from from I teashop saying hey
this is a phenomenal product right I
mean four thousand dollars with
unlimited licensing we're very
interested in this and this is a pretty
big one is when Panther ships and
Panther server will be able to host your
windows home directories on our hardware
so basically will show that in a graphic
in a second but basically you can have
an xserve and x-rayed host your windows
home directories on our on our hardware
and that's a fraction of the cost and
again that fits right into the need of
that customer that I mentioned who has a
thousand Windows servers and wants to
get rid of them we're actually actually
at least you know bring them down to a
manageable number running mac OS 10
servers again if you haven't deployed ad
i want to emphasize the fact that you
should be really looking at ldap
solutions either from apple or from
third-party vendors we have a built in
PDC now with with mac OS 10 with panther
server so with thanks to Samba and the
work of the the Samba team we now have
Samba 3 which has built in PDC support
we have Active Directory Integration
which will show in a second and we have
a scalable mail server that's the other
thing that people are looking at is
exchange is nice but we have a we think
we have a pretty good scalable solution
now with Cyrus mail and post six and
Panther and you should relook at that
and again it's all based on standards
which is another huge added value and
then we also have jaybob support
built-in for your j2ee deployments and
over forty percent of the enterprise
accounts out there actually deploy using
j2ee
some of the migration solutions to
migrate from windows NT we have das
technology they actually have a tool to
help you migrate from Windows NT to Mac
os10 server and then again with panther
server what you will bill to do is with
the ad the Active Directory plug-in and
Samba three you can now deploy exurbs
and xserve raids and basically host your
windows users home directories and
windows files on our hardware and save a
lot of money and then the last point I
wanted to make is I've seen a lot of
people deploy activex based web
solutions and that's not a good thing
right those this is totally non-standard
a non w3c compliant and so there's some
really interesting solutions from try on
that actually helps you migrate off of
activex into a Java world and you know
helps you migrate ASP web servers and
activex websites to more of a standard
so what I think is going to hit a home
run in Panther server with people that
have deployed active directory is this
right here where basically you buy an
xserve and an xserve raid and you have
your max you have your Windows desktops
and basically the windows user can log
in authenticate against active directory
because they've deployed active
directory and they're not going back
right but they can still work on the
file server side and save a lot of money
and not have to deploy those thousand a
thousand Windows servers really
consolidate that with xserve and neck
serve raid and so what I'd like to do is
bring up Eric Clemens the open directory
engineer to actually illustrate some of
that today with you Eric
st. Susie so before we get started just
kind of trouble we've got up here we've
actually got a windows laptop running
windows 2000 we've got a Windows 2000
server that's running ad of course and
can't show ed if you don't have an ad
server and also a mac running Panther so
first we're going to start at the
windows 2000 client okay thank you so
obviously we're at the login screen I'm
going to login is my account here pretty
typical environment you're used to it
looks at my virus without the daily need
to update that so you can see here I've
signed in and actually you can see my
network home directory because I've got
a gnome directed program this is running
on Windows 2000 server of course I've
got some files you know I've been
working on my desktop I don't really
save the network is I'm not used to
saving the network so let me copy the
files up to my network goes pretty quick
there so I'm kind of done here and if I
do we sign into Windows 2000 let's
switch over demo machine number two
please thank you so this is the Panthers
client we're actually running and
actually really programmed into active
directory when you have the user list of
course it says another button I
recommend changing that as you deploy so
one thing we did with the ad plugin is
we can actually sign in in a familiar
form you know if I sign it with a short
name there but you know some of you
actually sign in with an email address
you can do that now this seems like a
little bit this first time I've signed
in the computer as you've seen on the
mac on a Windows decline lot of times
when the first sign in the first time
it's creating your local account doing
all your profile settings all those kind
of things we're doing something similar
creating a local home directory caching
the user so you're ready to log in
offline
here we are not declining see my home
doctors are actually mounted on the
desktop here off that sharepoint and see
those demo files that i copied over a
little while ago i can copy doze off if
i wanted to leave them on the network
work with them on the network directly
so it's very familiar environment that
you would have seen on a pc one of the
things that we're going to highlight
here is i've also programmed it to look
at ad for the address book if you go to
the address book you'll see a
directories tab and I actually George
your services and I don't have it I know
JT's in here somewhere there is so I can
actually drag him over to my address
book click on the address book now I've
got his complete information his phone
number cell phone whatever it's been
programmed into the active directory so
it's a very handy feature and of course
i can continue search for other users i
can search myself for the first time and
if I try to drag that over and actually
notices already got a V car because the
first time I signed in we generate one
automatically I can just merge that so
I'm go to my v card now I've got a fully
populated v card with my information out
of the directory so it's very handy as
you eat send out emails within the mail
application so let me go to how this is
all configured to go to the local hard
drive here go to applications go to
utilities you'll see this directory
access application so this is what your
admins would do the first time it did
require administrative access to the
computer so I will sign it with an admin
account so i can look at this you see
the active directory tap i can pull that
down any time actually bound to the
DeForest and the domain now one thing
for those that you're going to try this
you do need to use the fully qualified
dns name of the domain you can't use the
ad some people were very tried to plug
and i heard and they couldnt get to work
as they typed in the short name we're
completely based on dns no RPC so we
can't locate the mains automatically
based on that they're going to turn the
Advanced Options you've got the multi
domain authentication caching as i said
the caching was turned on so they had to
do that caching to actually authenticate
i actually did a custom search path here
this allows me to plug into multiple
directories sara had an ldap server and
an active directory I can actually
program both of those directories in
there to authenticate against it's a
very nice feature
for the address book to actually do the
same thing on the Contacts tab add
active directory on the search path for
the context so that's kind of what it
takes to actually configure for Active
Directory now the other thing we've done
is we've actually got an xserve that
actually has the plugin already
installed frolic let me connect to that
xserve also and it's positive for name
is password type in the same name that I
used same password as you connect to a
shared volume so this is an AFP server
Heather Eddie Capra files up so I can
actually drag files from my windows 2000
server straight over to an ASP server so
now I've got all my files on the AFP
server using Active Directory in all the
cases here signing into the next serve
over Apple file protocol and signing
into the windows 2000 server give you a
little example of the tools here I can
actually manage the users on that server
remotely we have you give you some tools
with the xserve one in particular were
called workgroup manager
so you see lists of 80 users and if you
look at the top here is the Active
Directory ad domain so I can click on my
user I can click on JD other test users
etc admin users now what we actually
wanna show is something the actual true
integration here we've actually got
remote desktop on this client there is a
remote desktop client for Windows
terminal services for the mac so let me
go and connect over to the one to 2000
server
and I've got the users and groups
computers up now I can actually create a
new user
something very familiar with doing on
the windows side and I can actually go
over here and do a refresh NEC comes
from one already showed up just
completely integrated with the directory
[Applause]
I can actually edit some users if I
wanted to but I do most administration
from the windows side the other thing I
want to highlight here is we actually
got a user JD happens to be on our
connect friend here you'll notice his
account is set to change is passed on
this next log on something we really
want to show let me get out of the minor
bug with remote desktop on Panther so we
sign out I'm try signing on JD so you
can see my new cash to count is very set
up if I'd like you log into that real
quick if I wanted to I notice the login
will be a lot faster than it was a
minute ago because everything has
already been done that is still
verifying against the network so it is
still making sure your passwords insane
but let me log in to JD SOPs passwords
expired so I wants me to change my
password this is very unfortunately a
bug in the current feed so even though i
promise you to change it won't let you
change it bring type faster that's it so
in summary what did you see well we had
a Windows user right running on his
windows computer and we've now moved
this Windows user / to Mac and basically
all his files that were in his home
directory are now on his new apple
desktop and all its cause it was a
seamless transition right because we
have ad integration all you have to do
is configure this new computer with ad
and all the users files that were in his
home directory are now over to use to
his Macintosh so very soon with
transition on the desktop side on the
server side again the point is is xserve
xserve raid with the ad plugin now
allows you to totally manage and create
shares and host windows home directories
on the x server and the extra raid and
basically migrate off save money on cal
and have a much easier time
administrating those servers with our
phenomenal tools as you saw even the UI
looks a little bit better to me don't
you think so as a wrap-up it's not just
all about Panther and Panther server
it's about enterprise solutions and we
have some phenomenal third-party
solutions that are out there phenomenal
enterprise solutions I mean apples runs
ASAP as an example right so we have a
phenomenal ASAP java GUI for the
macintosh but we have a whole bunch of
really phenomenal third-party enterprise
solutions on the mac and as time goes by
we'll get more and more i mean this is a
phenomenal solution right the xserve I
four thousand dollars and the xserve
raid for eleven thousand dollars no one
no one can come close to this right this
is like the airport base station three
years ago when we basically ship the
first wireless solution for three
hundred dollars and everyone else was a
thousand all dollars the storage
solution no one can come close to what
we have and when we go and talk to
developers it really resonates right
they don't want to spend they don't
wanna have to convince a customer to
basically by you know very expensive
servers they want to sell their software
solution right they don't want to fight
for the hardware and here you know
basically the heart you've got a
five-thousand-dollar server that can do
as well as you know a very expensive
server from from other vendors and do
the same thing and that's why we're
getting you know solutions like Oracle
and sybase and you know basically SI p
clients and tivoli clients and
webmethods over to the macintosh because
those developers are actually seeing
that same vision that that we have
around the enterprise and so what I'd
like to do in summary is basically tell
you that we worked really hard the
engineers have worked really really hard
to make sure that Panther and Panthers
server are built with your enterprise
requirements in mind and as you saw with
a demo we think we're coming really
close to that and so we really want your
feedback as well
we'll have my email address up there as
well but the other thing I wanted to
leave you with is pick your directory
strategy wisely right if you have a
large amount of Max and a small amount
of pcs Windows desktops you definitely
should not be you know move to a B you
should look at our solution or
third-party ldap solution if you have a
mix and you haven't deployed a directory
solution you should really look at you
know standard based solutions right meta
directories are also a great thing to
look at so again deploy solutions and
deploy technologies based around open
standards around Java you know don't
deploy anything around activex and some
of those proprietary solutions it's a
nightmare to move off of them afterwards
let us know how we can help deploy more
max in your enterprise again that's
really very key we'd love to help you do
this and we want your feedback so again
I'll have my email address in a second
we'd love to help you as a roadmap some
of the sessions that are pretty
interesting this afternoon deploying
xserve there is a feedback form on the
enterprise there's network security best
practices so again we talked a lot about
security today but there's a really good
session on Friday Apple script for
sysadmin again that relates to what Gabe
showed you today with Apple scripts to
do Souths ago ian is going to do a
phenomenal job you know he's a
phenomenal presenter and then deploying
xserve raid Alex Grossman the xserve
raid product manager will actually show
you how to actually scale the xserve
raid from 1x of ray to 20 30 terabytes
right and he'll show you that on friday
on friday at three-thirty due to contact
myself very simple email address JD
apple com and skip 11s levin's at apple
com and so for more information there's
some good documentation I mean again the
mac OS x server documentation if you're
not familiar with 10 server you can
download the manual for free it's right
off our website and the schema
modifications and some of the security
api's are as well up there